## Inspiration

Twyst is here to change the face of the music industry.

No clutter. No mess. Just music.

## What it does

Our app, simple in nature but sleek in design, is made for performance. W
removed the clutter that most music apps have. Instead of opting for a full set
of piano keys, or a guitar neck, our app instead has just five buttons. But
don't be deceived—with just those buttons, one can play twenty-four different
notes, or two full octaves!

On the right side of the app, there are three buttons that can be used to play a
scale. On the left side of the screen, there are two more buttons — one for
sharps, and the other for flats. By tilting the phone forward, one plays higher
musical notes. And by shaking the phone, a user produces vibrato.

We think our app is not only functional, but fun to use as well. But don’t just
take our word for it, give it a twist!

## How we built it

Starting from a clean Xcode slate, our instrument manifested itself in the form
of an iOS app. Making use of an open-source framework called AudioKit, we were
able to get the audio synthesis up and running quickly and focus on the
instrument itself. SpriteKit allowed our visual palette to be as free as our
sound palette, and CoreMotion gave us access to the device's motion for features
that would be otherwise impossible on physical instruments.

## What's next for Twyst

We believe in the potential for mobile instrument applications. Not only ones
that are cute in the short term, but really ones that can reach the professional
level. Twyst was a preliminary experiment in how we can get mobile music apps to
the level that they might perform in front of audiences, and even shape the
future of the music industry.

When showing Twyst to other hackers, we found that users of all skill levels
loved tilting and shaking the phone. This led to the following conclusion:
producing music through applications is not simply about touch interfaces. It’s
really about the gamut of tools that phones offer! Hopefully we can continue
this in future iterations.

Thank you for trying Twyst, and we can’t wait to see how you’ll push it to the
next level.
